# CenterForMedicalGeneticsGhent/nf-cmgg-preprocessing: Output

## Introduction

This document describes the output produced by the pipeline. Most of the plots are taken from the MultiQC report, which summarises results at the end of the pipeline.

The directories listed below will be created in the results directory after the pipeline has finished. All paths are relative to the top-level results directory.

### Sample Directories

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `sample_id/`
  - `*.CollectMultipleMetrics.*`: Picard CollectMultipleMetrics output files.
  - `*.CollectWgsMetrics.*`: Picard CollectWgsMetrics output files.
  - `*.cram`: sample CRAM file.
  - `*.cram.crai`: sample CRAM index file.
  - `*.fastp.html`: FastP HTML report.
  - `*.fastp.json`: FastP JSON report.
  - `*.flagstat`: samtools flagstat output.
  - `*idxstats`: samtools idxstats output.
  - `*.stats` : samtools stats output.
  - `*.duplicate_metrics.txt`: BioBamBam Bamsormadup duplicates output.
  - `*.mosdepth.*`: Mosdepth metrics files.
  - `*.per-base.bed.gz`: Mosdepth per-base BED files.
  - `*.per-base.bed.gz.csi`: Mosdepth per-base BED index files.
  - `*.quantized.bed.gz`: Mosdepth quantized BED file.
  - `*.quantized.bed.gz.csi`: Mosdepth quantized BED index file.
</details>

The sample directory contains all the output files for a single sample. The directory name is the sample name as specified in the sample sheet.

### MultiQC

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `multiqc/`
  - `multiqc_report.html`: a standalone HTML file that can be viewed in your web browser.
  - `multiqc_data/`: directory containing parsed statistics from the different tools used in the pipeline.
  - `multiqc_plots/`: directory containing static images from the report in various formats.

</details>

[MultiQC](http://multiqc.info) is a visualization tool that generates a single HTML report summarising all samples in your project. Most of the pipeline QC results are visualised in the report and further statistics are available in the report data directory.

Results generated by MultiQC collate pipeline QC from supported tools e.g. FastQC. The pipeline has special steps which also allow the software versions to be reported in the MultiQC output for future traceability. For more information about how to use MultiQC reports, see <http://multiqc.info>.

### Pipeline information

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `pipeline_info/`
  - Reports generated by Nextflow: `execution_report.html`, `execution_timeline.html`, `execution_trace.txt` and `pipeline_dag.dot`/`pipeline_dag.svg`.
  - Reports generated by the pipeline: `pipeline_report.html`, `pipeline_report.txt` and `software_versions.yml`. The `pipeline_report*` files will only be present if the `--email` / `--email_on_fail` parameter's are used when running the pipeline.
  - Reformatted samplesheet files used as input to the pipeline: `samplesheet.valid.csv`.

</details>

[Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html) provides excellent functionality for generating various reports relevant to the running and execution of the pipeline. This will allow you to troubleshoot errors with the running of the pipeline, and also provide you with other information such as launch commands, run times and resource usage.
